                        NEST LICENSE AGREEMENT

This is a license agreement ("agreement") between you ("you", either
an individual or work group) and the members of the NEST Initiative
("the NEST Initiative") which covers the use of the NEST simulation
software ("software").

Please read this agreement carefully. Any use of the software
constitutes an acceptace of this license agreement.

1. GRANT OF NON-EXCLUSIVE LICENSE.

The NEST Initiative grants the non-exclusive, non-transferable right
for a single user or work group to use this software for research,
teaching and other non-commercial purposes. Each additional user or
work group of the software requires an additional license from the
NEST Initiative. A work group is defined as you and your immediate
colleagues.

The NEST Initiative grants you the right to modify, alter, improve, or
enhance the software without limitation, under the condition that you
do not remove or alter any trademark, logo, copyright or other
proprietary notice, including this license agreement, in the software.

You may, at your discretion, submit changes back to the NEST
Initiative. If you would like your changes to be incorporated into the
software, you need to transfer the ownership of the patch to the NEST
Initiative.

You may make copies of the software as is reasonably necessary for its
use. Each copy must reproduce all copyright and other proprietary
rights notices, including this license agreement, on or in the
software.

You may not distribute or redistribute the software or changes made to
the software to anyone other than the NEST Initiative.

2. OBLIGATION TO CITE

If you publish results which were obtained using the software, the
software must be appropriately cited in the publication. The citation
must appear in either the acknowledgements or the references section,
and must contain references to the NEST Initiative and the NEST
Initiative's web site (www.nest-initiative.org).

The following notice may be used as a template:
"Simulation results were obtained, using the simulation software NEST,
by the NEST Initiative, available at www.nest-initiative.org"

3. NO RIGHT TO TRANSFER

You may not rent, lease, lend, or in any way distribute or transfer
any rights in this agreement or the software to third parties without
the NEST Initiative's written approval, and subject to written
agreement by the recipient of the terms of this agreement.

4. THIRD PARTY RIGHTS

Any software provided along with the software that is associated with
a separate license agreement is licensed to you under the terms of
that license agreement. This license does not apply to those portions
of the software. Copies of these third party licenses are included in
all copies of the software.

5. NO WARRANTY

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED TO YOU "AS IS," WITHOUT WARRANTY. THERE IS
NO WARRANTY FOR THE SOFTWARE, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY
RIGHTS. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
SOFTWARE IS WITH YOU. SHOULD THE SOFTWARE PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME
THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE SOFTWARE AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR
DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE
(INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED
INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF
THE SOFTWARE TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER
OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

6. CONTACT INFORMATION

If you have any questions about this license agreement, or if you want
to contact the NEST Initiative, please write to

Marc-Oliver Gewaltig
Honda Research Institute Europe GmbH
Carl-Legien-Str. 30
D-63073 Offenbach/Main
Germany 

or visit http://www.nest-initiative.org
